Installing Bang
===============


Overview
--------
Bang is published in `PyPI <http://pypi.python.org/pypi>`_ and can be
installed via pip::

    pip install bang

However, Bang depends on other libraries for such things as cloud
provider integration and configuration management.  The OpenStack
client libraries in particular have extra dependencies that can be
tricky to install (e.g. `python-reddwarfclient
<https://github.com/stackforge/python-reddwarfclient>`_ depends on
`lxml <http://lxml.de/>`_).


Installing Dependencies
-----------------------
Debian/Ubuntu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
... Using System Packages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. WARNING::  This will likely upgrade some of your system Python
   packages.  E.g. On a stock Ubuntu 12.04 LTS installation, it
   upgrades `boto <https://github.com/boto/boto/>`_.

The benefit of installing Bang into your system Python installation
is that you don't need to build the native extensions in Bang's
dependencies - you can just use the prebuilt packages for your
system.  The following commands will install Bang to your system
Python installation::

    sudo apt-get install python-pip python-lxml
    sudo pip install bang

... In a Virtualenv
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Unfortunately, some of Bang's dependencies have native extensions
that require extra headers and compilation tools.  Install the
build-time dependencies from the Debian/Ubuntu package repos::

    sudo apt-get install build-essential python-dev libxml2-dev libxslt-dev

Then install Bang as directed above.


RightScale
~~~~~~~~~~
Bang allows you to combine traditional cloud providers like AWS with
higher-level cloud managers like RightScale in the same stack.
Generally, RightScale provides sufficient automation on top of AWS.
However, it is sometimes necessary to supplement RightScale's
features.  E.g.

- Using new AWS technologies that are not yet supported by
  RightScale.
- Integrating inherited application stacks that do not use Chef.
- Working with resources in multiple public cloud providers or even
  traditional private datacenters.

To enable the ``rightscale`` provider, install the following
dependency::

    pip install git+https://github.com/brantai/python-rightscale


.. _openstack-deps:

OpenStack
~~~~~~~~~
As much as possible, Bang uses official OpenStack client libraries to
provision resources in OpenStack clouds.  Prior to Bang 0.10, this
dependency was explicitly defined in the Bang package such that ``pip
install bang`` would install the OpenStack client libraries as well.
From Bang 0.10 onwards, OpenStack users will need to install the
client libraries on their own.

.. NOTE::  Problems with the client libraries include:

       - Not having dependencies defined correctly in their packages
       - Unnecessary dependency on native libraries like lxml

   Bugs have been filed with upstream, but they have not been very
   responsive to feedback from outside the OpenStack organization.

The following commands should install the necessary dependencies::

    sudo apt-get install build-essential python-dev libxml2-dev libxslt-dev
    pip install \
        python-novaclient==2.11.1
        python-swiftclient==1.3.0
        python-reddwarfclient==0.1.2
        novaclient-auth-secretkey

HP Cloud
^^^^^^^^
HP Cloud uses OpenStack as a base cloud operating system.  However,
HP has its own proprietary extensions and modifications which have
meaningful effects on the provisioning API.  Bang subclasses the
appropriate OpenStack client library classes and adjusts behaviour
for HP Cloud.  In addition to the OpenStack dependency installation
listed above, the following commands will enable Bang to deploy
databases to HP Cloud's beta DBaaS::

    pip install PyMySQL==0.5
